at the cro level who should own demand
genen yeah so it's a great question in
startup organizations I think the cro
can and that's say sub 20 million but
they have to have somebody who is really
an expert at demand gen and it could be
a highly functioning individual
contributor that's driving that for you
I think as you're doing this scaleup
journey and you're really trying to
build out that full function of demand
gen and all various channels there's
very few cro including myself who are
experts at that and yep I need to
understand it well so I can partner with
them but I think you dilute the focus of
the cro by having them own that demand
gen piece so the short answer I don't
think it should be part of it because I
think it's a different discipline and it
changes the culture and focus of the
revenue
organization yeah that was always my
view I want closers closing I want
sellers selling I don't know very many
sales leaders that intuitively are
detail or Quant enough to understand
demand gen marketing that's always been
my view I also didn't want customer
success to report to siero but I lost
that battle hey everybody Welcome to
Workshop
Wednesday we have a great one
today Kathy Lord who is cero of zeni and
this is a topic that we've written about
since the dawn of saster but is underd
discussed in so much content which is
what to really expect from your Sero in
the first 90 days I've written about it
but I was thinking about this topic
before saster annual last year and I
reached out to Kathy because I've known
Kathy in so many capacities in my early
days as a Sasso she was I think director
of sales VP of sales and Si then of
intact which was acquired for a billion
by sage and then I think stayed for a
couple years as a as like a GM or Co at
Sage after billion dollar
acquisition so I followed her from there
obviously an incredible journey I had
had a few other great SAS companies and
then I was kind of surprised I was kind
of surprised maybe six or eight months
ago when I saw on the LinkedIn that she
jumped into a mid-stage scale up right I
don't know the exact how many employees
at zensi about 225 225 okay so so we
might not call that we might I I don't
know what the line is between scaleup
and startup um certainly small compared
to uh anyone that's worked at a big
public company she's Kathy didn't decide
to go in and be the first AE but after
everything that she's done including
being like a general manager coo I think
is that correct at at in Tech she done
it all right she decided Frack I'm gonna
go back in and be a sales leader again
and I thought not only is that
interesting I want to hear her thought
process her process with her CEO why she
picked this opportunity why in this day
and age in this crazy world and
everything that went through it on both
sides expectation setting but here from
someone that I trust and have known for
a long time in different roles what you
should really expect realistically
realistically because I find and then
I'm going to let Kathy roll with this I
find that the biggest disalignment I see
in the hiring proc process today for
vpnc level Executives is just when you
don't actually align on the goals when
you start I see this again and again and
again and in today's world we've stopped
reference checking we do a lot of
interviews over Zoom we don't meet up
sometimes until the end of an interview
process and one of the things I see us
skip is a true real 90-day plan not a
fake one not an aspirational one but one
where you really make sure are we on the
same page and I see so many Executives
flame out weeks two through 20 or 50 and
it's not that they weren't great it's
just they were never aligned with the c
Co they just never and these are great
Executives they just never truly align
said this is what we can really get done
I'm going to get it done and it just
leads to frustration on both sides not
only does the SE often get frustrated
but I see these days when there's so
many veterans out there folks that have
done it before they get frustrated
because they're like this is how I did
it in intact I'm I'm I'm sort of making
fun of it but like every veteran had
success at their last company they had
wherever they are they had success and a
veteran is naturally going to want to
bring that Playbook into the new company
and never does that Playbook work 100%
it never works 100% And if you don't
align for real you're just going to
expect that that magic from GitHub or
intact or wherever it is whatever great
company that worked at notion you're
going to expect that that fairy dust
magically works at your startup the C is
going to use the same Playbook the co
isn't going to know what to expect and
half the time there's tears so that's
what I wanted
to get from the inside I'll hand it off
to Kathy perfect awesome thank you Jason
super excited to be here today I I think
one of the really interesting things
about this topic is it's extremely
relevant for all members of the
executive team certainly the CEO or
founder is I think a key person that you
have to have this alignment with but
really if you're going to drive
Commercial Success all of those other
functions have to be aligned and on
board with that too but understanding
what do CEO or Founders really want what
can cro really accomplish during this
90day window and then how do we bridge
that reality gap of what a CEO wants and
what a cro or VP of sales can deliver
and then we'll wrap up with three
actionable takeaways you can take back
into your organization so you guys can
all tell me afterwards if I've got this
correct or not but in my conversations
with folks whether they're ones I
interviewed with I've worked for or just
networking with the number one thing
that CEOs and Founders want is
sales then revenue and this a little bit
depends on what stage you're at but
depending on your stage what you need in
order to drive the sales and revenue can
be very different if you're at a few
million dollars AR and you're trying to
get to five or maybe to 10 you may still
be working on product Market fit and you
may be trying to say okay who is our
ideal customer profile where are we
going to be uh targeting what countries
what size what verticals what is the
right feature set and so what you're
looking for that sales leader to do when
you bring them on is very different than
if you're at 20 million or 30 million
and you have good product Market fit you
have a good Baseline process what you're
looking for there is how do I get to
scalability and then predictability and
so really being clear at what stage is
my organization at as the CEO founder
and if you're on the flip side looking
to you know interview with the co
founder really understand where are you
at what do you need and and what are
your Ambitions what level are you trying
to get to next because understanding
that and having the clarity around that
and and intellectual honesty around it
is is critical in order to gain that
alignment so if we think about the flip
side of this and what can a c or VP of
sales really accomplish I'm going to
split it out and in my mind this is
where the first misalignment happens is
because what a cro is going to come in
and just naturally do in the way they
think about the opportunity is very
different than where a VP of sales
mindset is going to be and and what you
can really expect them to do and much of
this is stage appropriateness right and
so what size are you at to really
determine do I need a c or do I really
need a vpm sales and so let's start with
a c and so if we're thinking about C's
first 90 days and then I'm going to take
you through my personal experience and
I'm going to share some zenai specific
materials that I've created over the
last 90 days and so I started my journey
with them in August kind of mid August
time frame and I just finished then you
could say my first 120
days and most of this was done within
the first 90 to 95 days that I'm going
to take you through today but from a cro
perspective they should be able to come
in easily have a strong understanding of
the business in the market and then I
would frankly argue like they should
have have a good sense of that at least
you know at a a high to mid level before
they even start the job because if
they're not doing the research on that
and trying to understand that as part of
making a decision are you the next
Journey they want to take they may or
may not be the right person that is all
in and curious about and has what it
takes to help you scale up your
organization and that needs to be you
know deep discussions with directs skip
level one-on ones with the revenue team
cross functional leadership and and not
just doing an assessment in the way a
consultant would but starting to build
those
relationships and then externally you
know having meetings with customers
Partners prospects because it doesn't
matter how many you know recorded videos
of customer calls you give them or how
many transcripts or how many times they
talk to the sales or Channel teams
having the direct conversations with
those customers or
prospects is is is where the majority of
the education comes from they should
also have a strong understanding of
Pipeline and forecast
so really understanding what's the
engagement in those deals to provide
executive
sponsorship initial assessment of the
funnel metrics and the friction points
and and I'll tell you depending on the
size of the company that I've gone into
they may or may not have good clean data
around this sometimes some organizations
are very good from day one and
others tend to work out of a spreadsheet
instead of CRM so their job is to go in
and really figure out you know as much
as they can what is the Baseline of
those metrics and then so you have
something to build on from
there the the other area is really an
assessment of what I call the the four
swim lanes and that's who are the people
in the revenue organization what are the
processes that are there what are the
ones that are missing and which ones
need to be reimagined same thing from a
systems perspective and as we
know it is no longer growth at all cost
it is very much a focus around being
cash flow positive both you know
naturally but also from an eida
perspective much earlier in an
organization's life cycle so you have to
be able to have efficiencies as you
continue to think about scaling your
organization and then the other one is
you know really starting to get a very
consistent revenue or sales oper tring
model that defines your ways of working
depending on where you're at and your
scale and early stages when you're
trying to get product Market fit you're
just going through a lot of different AB
testing does this work does this work
does this work and the likelihood of
everybody doing exactly the same thing
with the same milestones and the same
approach and the exact same messaging is
is probably not very likely and then the
last one is it's it's one thing to get
all this understanding of the business
you get an understanding of the forecast
the pipeline
you would make that assessment across
those four swim Lanes but it's all for
not if you don't have an action plan
that's prioritized that says how are we
going to now go take and attack those
opportunities to reimagine ourselves to
set ourselves up for more effective
scaling without a multi- quarter plan
with alignment cross functionally for
how you're going to get that done
because in my experience the majority of
actions that you want to take to drive
Improvement across the sales
organization is going to require support
from either product marketing product
marketing Finance Etc and so making sure
that they're aligned and they have those
changes prioritized in the same way in
which we you
do so if we think
about contrasting what I just took you
through from a c
perspective and we think about that from
a VP of sales like what are those
differences where the BP of sales rule
is a little bit different is they need
to be able to take and work
within where the organization is at
today and what I mean by that is really
saying okay what is the revenue Cadence
that we're on today what are those
inspection points of those different
deals and really Define a a consistent
way in which we're executing deals to
drive the most effective
Revenue they are actively in the
trenches and Eng engaged in a majority
of the key
Deals they should be taking a look at
the assessment of the revenue team and
the processes with an action plan
focused around how do we create more
Pipeline and how do we win more deals
and so the focus here is on how do I
drive more revenue and how do I scale
some of that not how do I set up my
organization to scale and so let's go
into a couple of examples because I
think this brings to life a little bit
around some of the expectations that you
should have when you hire a new
cro and then you think about okay we are
organized to match our B market strategy
we have developed our operating model
and the way we work together and
expectations and accountability how do
we measure if we're actually successful
or not and so this is the stage I'm
actively
in the middle of this project but really
starting to get very methodical around
how do we measure the funnel and what
does that look like and doing that on a
regional basis and a global basis and
starting to look at that and so becoming
very data driven on where do we M
resources or where should we not and
each of the regions as you would expect
I give you an example of one region here
in Nordo region they have issues in
different places right so where one may
be performing below plan another is
performing above plan and so it really
allows us to get everybody executing at
a very consistent Baseline
level and then the last thing I just
wanted to share with you was an example
of a three quarter action plan and this
is what I put together when I started
off after my initial 30 days this really
took us through you know what are we
going to do for the first three quarters
to implement this transformation and
help us achieve our ambition we were
looking to head and so you know it
doesn't have to be exactly like this but
you need to have more than the 90day
plan developed in that first 90 days
right so this is where it's really
critical and it and it really helps you
make sure that you're focused on the
things that are going to move the
needles and that everybody has Clarity
in the organization both within the
sales or Revenue teams but also cross
functionally what changes they should
expect because those will have impacts
across the rest of the
organization all right so we talked
through what CEOs and Founders tend to
want what we can really expect from a
cro or VP of sales in that first 90 days
and then you know how do we bridge this
reality Gap and make sure that we have
that alignment going
into a new partnership much to what
Jason was outlining when he kicked off
the call and I think it comes down to
three things and the first one is really
getting that Clarity on what your
organization needs today versus tomorrow
and you know if you're at you know 3
million 4 million AR and you're like I
want to invest in a sales leader now you
need to find somebody who can help you
get
to maybe it only gets you to 10 million
maybe if you're lucky you get to 15
maybe 20 but chances are they're
probably going to get you to that 10
million and then you're going to realize
you need a different set of skills and
experience because it's really important
to understand that role is it a leader
is it a coach is it a player coach are
they scaling are they building revenue
streams or are they just trying to you
know free you up as the CEO founder to
go fund raise or do CEO job and they're
there coaching the Reps and driving that
and and understanding their priorities
and
one of the things I've found is the
highest indicator of success in bringing
somebody in is do they have the pattern
recognition for your next stage of
growth because if you bring somebody in
who's already been through that stage of
growth that you're looking to achieve
then they're already going to know ahead
of time what are some of those pitfalls
that you're going to have what to expect
maybe how to prevent them and I can't
tell you every time I go through another
scaleup journey and that's why I'm here
is because I love the scale up Journey
between 30 and 100 million it's to me
very rewarding and fun I learn new
things and so if you're hiring somebody
to take you on that journey and they've
never done that Journey before could
they be successful sure they could but
chances are you're going to run into a
lot of potholes along the way because
they don't know what they don't know yet
so looking for the pattern recognition
and that person you're looking to hire
and making sure you have Clarity on what
your expectations are with them the
second thing is really that around
ensuring alignment and so this is where
I think it becomes really important is
that not only is the CEO or founder
aligned with the new Revenue leader
you're bringing in but that you have
tight cost functional alignment because
it's important that not just go to
market like Marketing sales services
revops are aligned with what the goals
and objectives are and what this person
is coming in to do to drive
transformation for the commercial part
of the organization they all need to be
marching to the same set of priorities
orrs goals objectives whatever your
organization uses you need to have
alignment there and then really
important is from a product perspective
as you're looking to bring in this
person to drive the next level of scale
need to make sure that where the product
is going both from engineering and
development perspective but also from a
product marketing and product management
perspective is are we aligned with where
we're tasking this Revenue leader to go
and what we want them to go do with
where they're investing and focused on
their priorities too so having every
executive aligned around those top three
short-term wins for your new Revenue
leader and then ideally if you can get
to Mid and longterm as well as far out
as you can see that will really help
ensure that you have alignment Beyond
just the CEO founder and with the
executive team that's going to make that
success happen lastly the third one is
empowering them and and I've experienced
this painfully more times than I would
like to say but you get brought into a
new
organization and you know you're you're
told okay you know we know we need to go
transform we know there's lots of
opportunities for improvement but then
you run across those sacred people or
processes or systems and say yeah it's
all great but yeah we're not going to
change that because the CTO really likes
it or that person they've been here
forever we don't want to get rid of them
so there can't be sacred people process
or
systems or else it's really difficult to
drive the level of transformation that
you want to scale your business you also
as the CEO founder cannot be the
bottleneck for all decisions and
sometimes this is the hardest one
because you're used to being involved in
all things and especially on the
commercial side of the organization if
if you're a Founder CEO but you have to
be able to step back and Trust the
revenue leader but verify but trust them
and let them be empowered to make
decisions and you got to know that there
are going to be mistakes I mean I'm not
perfect I make mistakes everyone who
goes out and and and makes mistakes
because if you're not making at least a
few mistakes you're not moving fast
enough the goal is that when you make
mistakes you fail fast you learn fast
and you minimize what's called that
recovery Gap from when you fail to when
you fix it and get out there and drive
it again right and it's it's a lot if
you think about
the sports analogy around that right
like you're going to make a bad decision
on whatever sport you're playing but you
fix it you correct it and you mitigate
any uh impact from that so
empowering your Revenue leader and
allowing them to go do their job and and
do it in a way in which they're not
afraid to make mistakes but they're also
learning from those correcting it and
driving the organization
forward so three key takeway ways
Clarity alignment and empowerment if you
can get
those as you think about what you need
for your organization you will have a
much much greater chance of having that
successful new Revenue leader on board
and be aligned with what success looks
like okay one yeah just one quick follow
up on that did you look when you join
zenai so you've done this before did you
build your own model where the revenue
should be 12 months out did you talk
about it with the co did you see that
your Revenue was aligned with
theirs yeah so I was very fortunate this
is the only time I've run into this but
they have a four-year strategy plan with
the full Revenue model associated with
it that yep that they were working with
now the challenge was due to some
Acquisitions and other things they
weren't executing to that Revenue model
for this year got it they had a
four-year plan they were behind on it
they brought you in to get them back on
track or better right you looked at the
plan and you went through it piece by
piece and decided if you believed that
those drivers to Tilt The Curve you
believe that you could execute those
drivers right you P you spent that time
before you started or signed the offer
letter
right yep yeah I just find most cosos
especially slightly earlier stage they
don't go to that next level I find
actually what I do especially for like
Investments or if I'm on the board I
actually try to do that in the last I
try to be the last interview and I'm
like okay Kathy I'm so excited you're
joining the company let me just ask one
question did you happen to talk with the
CEO about how our smbs in East
subsaharan Africa are shrinking no I
didn't did you did you happen to talk
about how 35% of our Revenue comes from
partners and I think one of them's at
risk and they leave us no I didn't know
we had an indirect strategy I can't tell
you how many times folks don't know the
amount of Revenue that comes from
Partners in the ecosystem versus direct
as a sales leader as a revenue leader if
you don't know what's indirect uh it's a
top so anyhow we could talk about it
forever I'm glad you did it but my
number one advice is to slow it down at
the very end and make sure at both sides
but especially as a revenue don't be
nervous at the end be comp the co want
you you know when you're wanted as a cro
don't you totally it's not in the middle
is it when a SE wants a revenue leader
it when it they may not know in the
first interview a line is crossed from
like I got to have Kathy right right or
wrong you know you got to have that
resource that you have that feeling
right an interview where they really
want you absolutely absolutely yeah so
if you're a revenue leader on the other
side or if you're a CEO take the time to
slow it down at the end tell them you
love them get I even say give them an
unsigned off give them a signed offer
letter but don't ask them to counter
sign until they're all in that way the
pressure is off right here's your comp
here's your title here's your Equity
it's signed if you need two weeks to
make sure you believe in the plan if you
need two weeks to go talk to a few more
customers to talk to the team and you
bail in two weeks out of it that's okay
like this as crazy as it sounds I'd
rather you bail with a signed offer
letter then bail 90 days out absolutely
absolutely okay this is a niche question
but a newish one that I'm wondering if
you thought about at the cro level who
should own demand
genen yeah so it's a great question well
I me see in startup organizations I I
think the cro can and that's say sub 20
million but they have to have somebody
who is really an expert at demand gen
and it could be a highly functioning
individual contributor that's driving
that for you I think as you're doing
this scaleup journey and you're really
trying to build out that full function
of demand gen and all the various
channels there's very few cro including
myself who are experts at that and yep I
need to understand it well so I can
partner with them but I think you dilute
the focus of the C by having them own
that demand gen piece if you then at the
other end of the spectrum become really
big where you have somebody who's just
overseeing some very senior people could
they then roll up into somebody in in
you know like a Sero but they're
probably going to be more like a
president Title by then so the short
answer I don't think it should be part
of it because I think it's a different
discipline and it changes the culture
and focus of the revenue
organization yeah that was always my
view I want closers closing I want
sellers selling I don't know very many
sales leaders that intuitively are
detail or Quant enough to understand
demand gen marketing that's always been
my view I also didn't want customer
success to report to C but I lost that
battle right that that ship has sailed I
think it's terrible but what I've Ed
with an a lot of the next generation of
Revenue leaders is they don't want to F
around and so they want if they say they
want marketing to report to them but
then when I talk to them I say okay
let's narrow it down you don't really
want to be working on product marketing
or the website or you want demand you
want you want you want to say listen I
want to control my destiny with leads I
want to hire Kathy or Jason on my team
because I I don't as good as Jim is like
he's not really delivering and I'm I'm
I'm I'm done with that I'm done with
waiting for marketing to deliver me not
enough pipe I want to own it and I'll
put my neck out there even if I'm not
great at it I'd rather own it I'd rather
hire my person that I trust and have
them own it and I'm this is a quiet
theme people are MISD discussing whether
marketing should report to sales I think
it's more whether demand gen should
report to an aggressive sales leader who
says I've had an all all of enough and I
used to be against it for the reasons
but now I'm seeing it work up to a point
because at least they can get more
results versus a lack ofical marketing
organization yeah for sure for sure okay
one more Niche one that you touched on
but this one's so good because you
touched on it zero in existing VP of
sales when it's topping a VP of sales I
know some people don't like this term
top but I think it's a simple a simple
way toiz way explain it Y how do you how
should a CEO think about it how should a
new C think about it especially when the
VP is sales that got you from 3 to 10 or
3 to 15 or 20 when they're great yeah
and I I I think this is one of the thing
and I I will say my um CEO Rasmus holed
an amazing job of of this and it's it's
really helping that amazing VP of sales
understand you know where their pattern
recognition and experience is and that
the things that are going to take and
get us from where we are today to that
next Milestone whatever that is requires
a different set of activities a
different set of experiences
and we're as an organization one going
to mitigate our Risk by hiring somebody
who has that pattern recognition
experience and then the second part of
that is this is a opportunity for us the
VP of sales to basically ride shotgun
and learn from that
cro and so that you're now ready to take
that next stage and and that next step
of growth when you move your next
opportunity and there needs to be that
commitment that who you in will help
coach and bring that person up so that
they can become a cro in their next
role and do you how much of a
stakeholder do you think the VP the
first vpsl should be in that search do
you give them do you allow them a fret
row seat in the interview do you allow
them a soft veto do you exclude them
what do you what do you do when you
totally trust them right when they're
great yeah and and I think if you if you
totally trust them and you have a good
relationship with them I think they are
a soft be because the challenge is they
can look for cultural and ability to
maybe understand the product or Market
but that's likely where their experience
and expertise is going to end because
okay if they haven't been on the journey
they don't know exactly what to look for
and and how to ask and and articulate
that yeah I wrote this classic SAS post
I updated which is never never hire a
cro that everybody loves because there's
so much bias across the team there has
to be some like someone has to be
threatened by the o or you're not making
the right hire yeah yeah right and and
it's tough for the VP s but and yet you
owe them too don't you at at some sort
of level you owe them as even though
they can't be unbiased they I I always
worried they would pick the nice person
the one the one that wouldn't threaten
them the one that wouldn't threaten them
right
yeah yeah you you can't totally ignore
them they need to be a part of it and
and at least in some way participatory
now you also don't want to distract them
from whatever you've got them doing as
well too right so it's it's a balance
that I think you you have to work
through but they should not be in my
opinion Frontline leading the interview
yeah two of the I won't name names but
two of the top zos that I know now at at
decacorns were VPS of sales kept getting
topped and topped and topped and then
the C would move on or not work out and
they stuck it out yeah they stuck it out
and it took a while and their time
finally came right yeah no I've seen it
too I've seen it
too all maybe just one follow up on this
and then I think we have to end um but I
find one issue is when a lot especially
a lot of product focused CTO yep hire
their sales leader they actually want to
exit sales entirely I don't want to do
it I gotta get back to Pro I hear this
again and again Cathy I'm I'm one of the
re I'm hiring you to increase sales but
also I'm hiring you so I can get I got
to get back to the product yeah have you
used any fistic mechanisms meeting
quotas to ensure that the CEO stays
enough in sales that they don't leave
sales too much have you seen that in
there any tips and tricks you have to
make get the CO to stay in sales
absolutely and I think it's a little bit
of of stage and journey specific but
there's always the role for that CEO
founder and especially a product
oriented one and as you're setting up
the sales process and and what that
looks like you should Define a it could
be based on size it could be based on
you know maybe they fit a strategic new
initiative Etc but there's very clear
situations when you bring in the CEO to
be participatory in that meeting and you
define ahead of time what is that role
do they give the vision Tau do they give
here's our future or some cases if
you're earlier stage they may do the
demo right
so it kind of depends which stage you're
at but you should always regardless of
size the CEO should be actively involved
you know at least 10% of their time to
20% engaged with customers and partners
that's a good one I love to just tell
Founders that when you hire a great
sales leader assign it you don't get any
time back in sales it's just used
differently you'll just be more
efficient you might become more of a
Middler or a demo or a supporter or
focused on big but you don't get a
minute back if you if you hire a
mediocre leader you get all your time
back but the great Revenue leaders know
they need the 10 to 20% right they're
not going to let you go they know they
need to bring you into the key deals
right so don't don't expect your time
it's a bad sign if you get 100% of your
time back yeah it really is it really is
and and it's it's how do you stay in
touch with the customers in the market
if you're not engaged either right all
right Kathy A+ thank you for all your
learnings we'll check back in at 100
million and then a billion in AR and see
how how this all played out and thanks
everybody for joining Workshop Wednesday
see you soon thanks everyone thanks Cy
see everyone next week